Hello.
I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount Airy, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preteen podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
Deuteronomy 10, verse number 12.
And now Israel, what do?
What does that?
The Lord thy God require of thee.
But to fear the Lord thy God.
To walk in his ways and to love him and to serve the Lord thy God with all thine heart and all thy soul. Amen.
I'm gonna look at one one word in this verse i'm gonna look at the word serve
The Bible says to serve the Lord thy God with all thine heart and with all thy soul.
This means
Whatever we're doing for God, we've got to do with all of our heart
It don't matter if we're if it's preaching or if we're scrubbing toilets
When I think about all the jobs inside of a church, I think about a motor.
With hundreds of parts, some of them are big, some of them are so small you hardly ever even see them.
But all of them are just as important for the motor to be.
Run smoothly.
You'll never see all of the components inside of a motor.
But they're there working, just like in the church.
Some people think you just show up on Sunday.
Listen to some preaching.
Go home and that's it. But there's so much more than that.
I'm going to show you three things
In how
A church compares to a motor.
First, you have the power of the church.
Every motor has to have a source of power.
That drives everything else.
That's the crankshaft.
Everything is run off the crankshaft. Without it, it can't do anything.
I'd like to thank God for the crankshaft.
Without without him nothing else operates
Just as the church draws its power from God,
Without his power we have nothing. We might as well go home, sit down and watch Gunsmoke.
We have to have the power of God in the church and in our lives to serve him efficiently.
I like the saying of
Jesus as the spark plugs.
And the Holy Ghost is the pistons and the Bible as the fuel.
With those three things
The fuel goes into the motor
The spark plates create a spark igniting it.
And then the pistons create combustion keeping the motor turning.
The same way.
If we have...
This word right here.
And the hollow ghost we can keep running
The best way to avoid a dead church is by staying connected to God through His Word.
We have to be in the Word.
Thank God for the day when Jesus came and created a spark in me and the Word's been keeping me fueled ever since.
If we're saved, we have a fire inside of us.
And this word keeps us going.
We have to have a desire to serve the Lord no matter how big or how little the job is in God's eyes.
The fact is, if we aren't constantly getting fuel from the source,
We'll have a church that goes dead.
We have to be in the Word.
Ephesians 6.10 says, Finally, brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might.
God has all the power.
for our walk with him.
But his power doesn't work.
If we're just working us, if we just sit idly.
His power only works.
When we rely on it and step out to do the work.
We can rely on it and not do the work.
Or we can work and not rely on it but both of those fail
We must rely on his power and then do the work.
It's not that I do everything and God does nothing.
It's not
God does everything and I do nothing.
It's not even, "I'll do all I can and God helps me with what I can't."
is I rely on God's strength and power to serve him.
Without his power, we're nothing. Without his power, we're nothing.
The church is a dead motor.
Second, I have the parts of the church.
A motor has hundreds of parts.
All the parts must work it.
Together in unison to operate efficiently.
The same way, it's the same way with the church. It's made up of different individuals.
With different roles all working together
with the purpose of serving God.
I'd like to thank the pastor at the camshaft.
Israel is to keep everything in tune, running smoothly.
and deliver the power from the crank, from the crank
To everything else but he can't operate without the crank
The members are the valves, push rods, rockers, and springs.
All different in design.
making up
All different design but still just as important
For it to function.
Same way with all the different people of the church.
You may not see what they do,
They're working, but they're working behind the scenes.
Just as you don't see God.
All the internal components of an engine.
It doesn't matter if you're the treasurer, Sunday school teacher,
Or just show up to worship
Every member has an important role and responsibility to serve God, serve and worship God.
1 Corinthians 5, 6 says, And the Lord said to
Your glory is not good, no ye.
That a little leaven leaveneth the whole up
I didn't know what that what lebanon was
But my mama makes a lot of sourdough, so I asked her
And uh
Basically what it is, is it's yeast.
Something bred apparently
And, uh...
If you just put a put a pinch of yeast in the bowl
Of dough.
It will make the whole bowl of dough rise.
The presence of a little can corrupt a large amount.
Just like
If you drop one
Little Betty 10 millimeter bolt
Down into the motor.
And you don't leave it in there and you run it.
That motor's done.
You can take a big 454 big block
And one little 10 millimeter can ruin the whole thing.
Lysa mechanics works not there.
Uh.
I remember one time when I was young, real little.
I was working on my truck in the backyard.
And those of you who have seen the motor in my truck know I got a nice, haul-ish 754 barrel carburetor with a high-rise air filter.
Well, I can't remember exactly what I was doing to it.
But I was taking the air filter off.
And it's got a little nut that bolts the airfield down.
and I went to pick it up and I dropped that nut down into the carburetor.
I spent an hour trying to get that out.
Eventually, we had to rebuild the copyright.
Thank you.
I don't do that no more.
Most of the time.
But just like that's the mechanic's worst nightmare.
I would say, correct me if I'm wrong, that's a pastor's worst nightmare
It'd be the worst nightmare for one,
Bad one little bolt so to say
To get in the church and tear the whole church apart.
The church never fails from the outside. It's always from within.
Am I right, preacher?
If a single engine part fails the engine before the engine
Has poor performance,
It runs rough
And leading to breakdowns and overall poor performance.
Just like if a church member fails,
So for piss to participate or fulfill the responsibilities of the servant to God
or let sin hinder their walk with God, the whole church will suffer.
That's why it's so important to stay in tune with God.
It goes back to Deuteronomy 10:12.
And now Israel what doth the Lord heard thy God require of thee but to fear the Lord thy God to walk in all his ways and to love him to serve him
It says, to serve the Lord thy God with all my heart and all my soul. Amen.
I'm going to take a bit of a detour.
And I'm going to look at that word fear for a minute.
A lot of people say that and they think that word fear means scared of.
It's like, I'm scared my mama
That's one of the reasons why I drove here myself tonight.
But I'm not scared of God in the same way.
What it actually means is to stand in awe and reverence in front of a holy God.
Yes. That feeling you get.
When you realize just how big God is and how small you are.
That feeling.
When you realize the creator of the universe wants to have a relationship with you.
That feeling you get knowing that a holy god sent his only son to die for your sins
So you don't have to go to hell.
When you realize the vastness of the universe,
And you've suddenly been to sense how small you are in comparison.
That's the fear of the Lord.
It's not a fear that makes you want to sink back down in your seat
But it's a fear.
that causes you to want to honor and not disobey God.
If you just get a hold of that, God will.
we would serve him the way we should. We wouldn't worry about what others think. We would only be concerned about what God thinks.
When he nudges us to testify, we would do it.
We wouldn't sit there and keep our mouth shut.
When we're doing that, we might as well just say, sorry, I'm more worried about what other people think.
We wouldn't worry about what this person says or that person thinks.
We went about worrying about who shook our hand and who didn't.
All we would worry about
is loving God and serving him.
We wouldn't get these petty little things wouldn't matter
What matters is God.
Well, the matter's just souls getting saved.
What matters is Jesus is coming back.
If you want to serve God in a big way, you've got to worship Him in a little way first.
To run efficiently,
All of the parts of a motor have to work together.
for the church.
For the church to serve God
It has to work together.
Every member is important.
Every job is important.
Sure. People are dying and going to hell, and we're too busy getting mad over things that don't even matter.
If our hearts are torn towards God...
And we realize he's the only thing that matters is him.
So we have the power of the church.
We have the parts of the church.
And lastly, we have the purpose of the church.
A motor is designed to achieve a specific purpose.
Whether it's to go in a car and
Just be a daily driver back and forth or just to win the NASCAR.
Every church has a specific purpose.
The purpose of the church is to serve worship and spread the word of God until he comes back
When we hear, "Well done, thy good and faithful servant."
The church is called to spread the gospel.
The church is a place of encouragement. It's a place
Where we can come and forget all of our problems and worries.
And set our eyes towards heaven.
It's a place of fellowship.
I'm going to place a comfort.
Matthew 18:20 says,
where two or three are gathered together in my name.
There I am in the midst of them.
Just like if you have a
a block.
That's the part that houses all the components of a motor.
You can have that and it can be...
Paint it up nice Chevrolet orange and everything have all the bells and whistles
But if there's nothing inside of it
It might as well just be a paperweight.
Just like we can have a church.
It's all pretty on the outside, but if there's no one in it,
There's no use of it.
Some may think the church is just a place to go to.
When you have nothing else to do
or
You've hit you go when you hit rock bottom or you go because your parents make you
or because we're in the South and that's just what we do.
But I say it's a place to go to worship a risen Savior. I say it's a place to go to worship a risen Sav
where the God of heaven meets with us. I say it's a place where he speaks through our heart.
A place where souls are saved.
It's a place where I was called to preach.
It's a place where he convicts us when we're straying
It's a place where I've seen God answer prayers.
I say the church is a whole lot more of a place than to go when we just have nothing else to do.
It's a place I look forward to coming to every week.
Sundays and Wednesdays are my favorite day of the week.
This church is my family.
This church is my home and its members are my family.
The church.
Is a place where gospel people can forget about the rest of the world for a little while.
And rest in the presence of the savior.
The Bible says in Hebrews 10.25, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together, but forsaking the assembly of ourselves together.
As the manner of some, but exhorting one another.
And so much
So much the more as you see the day approaching.
If we aren't going to church...
We ain't fearing God like we should.
We ain't loving them like we should.
And we certainly ain't serving him like we should.
as miss tanya.
Comes playing softly.
We have the power of the church.
Without God's power, the church is dead.
Just like a motor without a crank.
It might look nice on the outside, but it's going nowhere.
We've got the parts of the church.
When all the members are in tune with God,
The church runs smoothly.
But if one part fails
The whole church, the whole motor is affected, the whole church is affected.
And lastly, we have the purpose of the church.
It's a place to meet with God.
Worship and serve him
But if we can't do that,
Our engine is out of tune.
We have to keep our eyes on the Savior.
Let's love him and serve him with all of our hearts.
No matter no job is too small in God's eyes.